Mads Lang Sørensen
® Experienced in developing and implementing NLP/LLM/AI
solutions
® Large knowledge and interest in the potential of AI within the media industry
® Multidisciplinary profile combining the best of data science with a background in social science
® Extrovert and positive personality: Excellent at collaborating with a diverse range of backgrounds

Work Experience
2023-
Data Scientist - Amsterdam Data Collective (ADC)
madslangs MadsLang
® Works hands-on with developing data and AI-solutions to client across different industries. I have particularly worked on projects involving NLP and language models. For example, I have worked with customer services by using language models to classify and extract information from e-mails to make the experience more efficient.
® Works on all parts of the solutions: From compiling training data, training and finetuning the model, architecting deployment, CI-CD processes as well as setting up tools to interpret and monitor inference in production stages.
® Furthermore, I have worked as a project manager on smaller projects.
2021-2023
Junior Consultant, Amsterdam Data Collective (ADC)
® While only being part-time, I had a lot of responsibility and have worked hands-on on different data science projects. I worked with a wide range of tasks within NLP, data collection and more.
Spring 2021
Intern, Damvad Analytics (now ADC)
® As an intern, I was introduced to a wide range of tasks within a data science and data analytics consultancy.
2019–2020
Junior Researcher, VIVE
® Worked on research projects – particularly using register data from Statistics Denmark. My responsibilities included data analysis with a focus on causal inference and machine learning.

Technical Experience
Languages: Fluent in Python and R. Experienced with database-languages like SQL and NoSQL (Elasticsearch). Furthermore, a general knowledge and experience with HTML, CSS and basic Javascript.
DevOps: Working daily with git, package management tools like pip and poetry, and container management with Docker. I also have experience with Kubernetes. I have also built CI-CD- pipelines in Azure Pipelines, Bitbucket Pipelines and Github Actions. I have also worked with API development – particularly with FastAPI.
Cloud: I have worked mostly with AWS, where I hold the certification of AWS Cloud Practitioner. However, I have also worked some with Azure. I have also experience working with Infrastructure- As-Code, e.g. with AWS Cloudformation and Terraform.
Modellering/NLP: Sklearn, Pytorch, Spacy, NLTK, and HuggingFace’s SDKs (datasets, transformers, SentenceTransformers, setfit, optimum). Annotation-tools like Doccano and Argilla. I have mostly used MLFlow for monitoring.
LLMOps: I have some experience working with Langchain, Llamaindex, and OpenAI’s SDK. Visualization/dashboards: A lot of experience with packages such as matplotlib, seaborn,
ggplot2 as well as interactive tools such as plotly, R Shiny and Streamlit.

Education
2021-2023
Master’s degree, Sociology University of Copenhagen
® In my thesis, I collaborated with Ekstra Bladet, where I examined how news values in the news
content affects audience engagement on social media. In a large-scale study, I used a range of NLP-models to analyze three years of news shared by EB on Facebook. The thesis won the award for best master’s thesis 2022/2023 at Institute of Sociology.
® During my studies, I took several elective courses related to data science, e.g. “Natural Language Processing” at Institute of Computer Science.
2017-2021
Bachelor’s degree, Sociology,
University of Copenhagen
® My thesis examined how social networks of interactions on 6000 Danish Facebook-groups
affects the amount of crime in the local neighborhoods.
® During my studies, I took several elective courses related to data science, e.g. “Econometrics
and Machine Learning” and ”Introduction to Social Data Science” at Center for Social Data Science, University of Copenhagen.